---
title: Strategy
permalink: /strategy/

layout: post
sidenav:
  - text: <strong>Strategy</strong>

  - text: Cloud Smart
    href: '#cloud-smart'
    iconbefore: cloud
    external: true
    subnav:
      - text: (Re-)Defining Cloud Computing
        href: '#re-defining-cloud-computing'
      - text: Modernization and Maturity
        href: '#modernization-and-maturity'

  - text: Security
    href: '#security'
    iconbefore: shield-alt
    external: true
    subnav:
      - text: Trusted Internet Connections
        href: '#trusted-internet-connections'
      - text: Continuous Data Protection and Awareness
        href: '#continuous-data-protection-and-awareness'
      - text: FedRAMP
        href: '#fedramp'

  - text: Procurement
    href: '#procurement'
    iconbefore: 'money-check-alt'
    external: true
    subnav:
      - text: Category Management
        href: '#category-management'
      - text: Service Level Agreements
        href: '#service-level-agreements'
      - text: Security Requirements for Contracts
        href: '#security-requirements-for-contracts'

  - text: Workforce
    href: '#workforce'
    iconbefore: 'users'
    external: true
    subnav:
      - text: Identifying Skill Gaps for Current and Future Work Roles
        href: '#identifying-skill-gaps-for-current-and-future-work-roles'
      - text: Reskilling and Retaining Current Federal Employees
        href: '#reskilling-and-retaining-current-federal-employees'
      - text: Recruiting and Hiring to Address Skill Gaps
        href: '#recruiting-and-hiring-to-address-skill-gaps'
      - text: Employee Communication, Engagement, and Transition Strategies
        href: '#employee-communication-engagement-and-transition-strategies'
      - text: Removing Bureaucratic Barriers to Hiring Talent Expeditiously
        href: '#removing-bureaucratic-barriers-to-hiring-talent-expeditiously'

---

{% if site.draft %}
<header class="draft-instructions">
  <p>
    This is a draft strategy open for public feedback. You may provide feedback in three ways:
  </p>
  <p>
   1. Content suggestions and discussions are welcome via GitHub “issues.” Each issue is a conversation initiated by a member of the public. We encourage you to browse and <a href="https://github.com/{{ site.github.organization }}/{{ site.github.repository }}/issues">join in on discussions</a> in existing issues, or start a new conversation by opening a <a href="https://github.com/{{ site.github.organization }}/{{ site.github.repository }}/issues/new">new issue</a>.
  </p>
  <p>
    2. Direct changes and line edits to the content may be submitted through a <a href="https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request">&quot;pull request&quot;</a> by clicking &quot;Edit this page&quot; on any site page in <a href="https://github.com/{{ site.github.organization }}/{{ site.github.repository }}/tree/{{ site.github.default_branch }}/pages/">the repository.</a>. You do not need to install any software to suggest a change. You can use GitHub's in-browser editor to edit files and submit a pull request for your changes to be merged into the document. Directions on how to submit a pull request can be found <a href="https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request">on GitHub</a>. Open pull requests for the proposed guidance can be found <a href="https://github.com/{{ site.github.organization }}/{{ site.github.repository }}/pulls">in the site repository on GitHub</a>
  </p>
  <p>
    3. Send your content suggestions or proposed revisions to the OMB Office of the Federal Chief Information Officer via email to <a href="mailto:{{site.mail}}">{{site.mail}}</a>. Please note that all comments received will be posted publicly.
  </p>
  <p>
    Comments will be accepted through <strong>October 24th, 2018</strong>.
  </p>
</header>
{% endif %}

# <a id="cloud-smart"></a>From Cloud First to Cloud Smart


To keep up with the Country’s current pace of innovation, this
Administration has placed significant emphasis on utilizing IT modernization to
improve the services the Federal Government provides to the American
people. Through an Executive Order (EO), President Trump directed the
creation of a report on the modernization of Federal IT. This report
identified over 50 tasks that improve citizen-facing services,
accessibility, and maintain cybersecurity.

In 2010, the Federal Government created the first cloud strategy, called
Cloud First. This policy was created at a time when cloud technology was
still relatively new, and provided agencies broad authority to adopt
cloud-based solutions. However, absent an implementation plan or
strategy, agencies were slow to adapt. While Cloud First successfully
highlighted the importance of IT modernization efforts, its shortcomings
needed to be addressed. This is why this Administration has
developed **Cloud Smart,** a new strategy for agencies to adopt cloud
solutions that streamline transformation and embrace modern
capabilities. Cloud Smart focuses on equipping agencies with the tools
needed to make informative technology decisions in accordance with their
mission needs, and leverages private sector solutions to provide the
best services to the American people.

Cloud Smart encompasses several key components of IT modernization
including security, procurement, and workforce. Historically, policies
have isolated these areas, creating confusion and a misunderstanding of
requirements, mission, and needs. However, they are deeply linked, and
require an integrated, interdisciplinary approach, rather than a
one-size-fits-all approach to IT modernization. Cloud Smart combines
these disciplines together into a cohesive strategy that provides
savings, security, and faster delivery of mission-serving solutions.

Agencies will need to share their transformative experiences with their
peers, so that Government can leverage collectively-gained knowledge.
The ability to evaluate, consume, and share knowledge is the driver of
success in private sector IT modernization efforts – the Federal
Government’s approach should be no different. By investing in these
capabilities now, agencies will ensure the best, and smartest, approach
to serving missions and being stewards of taxpayer dollars.

## Key Actions

The Chief Information Officer Council and Chief Financial Officer Council will
work with the Office of Management and Budget, the General Services
Administration, the Department of Homeland Security, and other Federal
agencies to develop a work plan of actions and targeted policy updates
delivered over the next eighteen months to move the Cloud Smart agenda
ahead. This plan will be technology-neutral, and will consider
vendor-based solutions, agency-hosted solutions, inter- and intra-agency
shared services, multi-cloud, and hybrid solutions as appropriate. For
agencies to remain effective in the 21<sup>st</sup> century, these Cloud Smart
actions will need to be iteratively reviewed and improved over time to
keep up with the changing market and emerging technologies.

# I. Cloud at a Glance

## (Re-)Defining Cloud Computing

The term “cloud” inside of Government is often used to refer to any
technology solution provided by an outside vendor. In practice, “cloud
computing” refers to a variety of technologies that allow the rapid
provisioning of systems or services from a shared pool of resources,
ranging from hosted email solutions provided by a private company, to a
scalable application container run on government-owned servers in a
government-owned data center. A cloud migration strategy should not be
considered a question of who owns the computing resources, data, and
facility, but rather can this solution improve service delivery to
citizens. Evaluating specific capabilities of services, such as
automatic scalability, is useful when evaluating solutions, rather than
just considering if an application is “cloud” or not.

Much of the previous guidance on the topic of cloud technology focused
on potential benefits instead of realizing outcomes. As an example,
moving an application from a traditional data center to a virtualized
infrastructure vendor generally does not enable automatic application
scalability with increased user demand. To achieve this goal, project
development and execution efforts will often be needed to refactor
applications to take advantage of new capabilities such as
auto-provisioning and auto-scaling, and this must be factored into
analysis and planning.

The traditional cloud deployment models reflected a progression of
increasing vendor-ownership through system layers, from Infrastructure
as a Service (IaaS) where vendors provide only the infrastructure and
hardware, to Platform as a Service (PaaS) where vendors provide hosting
and infrastructure management, to Software as a Service (SaaS) where
agencies only need to provide their data and most other capabilities and
functionality are provided by a vendor. Industry has since moved to a
more finely differentiated set of capabilities at different layers. The
rapid development of both open source and proprietary offerings have
made possible today almost any combination of vendor and Government
ownership of these various layers. Most major vendors now offer a
variety of available adoption paths and services depending on end-user
needs. Industries that are leading in technology innovation have also
demonstrated that hybrid and multi-cloud environments can be effective
and efficient.

Private industry now offers such a large range of possible
solutions, and agencies must be properly equipped to evaluate the choices
available to them based on their service and mission needs. Agencies
should make computing and technology decisions that take into account
end-user impact balanced against cost and risk management criteria.

## Modernization and Maturity

Cloud technology adoption requires that agencies prioritize migration
planning, sustainment, and organizational maturity in order to realize
the full benefit of these services. One way in which adoptions fail is
when organizations buy solutions without proper identification of
requirements and intended outcomes. This can lead to a project not
launching, a service failing at peak need, or simply redundant
purchasing across the enterprise.

As technology changes, agency information technology strategies need to
mature as well. Modernization is an ongoing commitment that is not
sustained with single interventions once every decade. Rather,
modernization is a constant state of change, and part of the day-to-day
business of technology at every agency. To that end, policy, guidance,
and requirements need to be iteratively improved to match changing
needs, lead mature practices, and drive positive outcomes.

To accelerate cloud adoption, agencies should be expected to regularly
evaluate their current state of maturity across the agency. **Security,
Procurement, and Workforce** are three key areas that require serious
consideration and investment to ensure successful adoption. Agencies
should also evaluate their user needs for efficiency, accessibility, and
privacy in the context of the solutions they choose.

For example, to utilize the distributed nature of cloud, moving security
controls from the network perimeter closer to the data itself can
improve the overall security posture. To realize the scalability,
stability, security, and speed to market benefits of cloud
infrastructure, agencies need to utilize modern agile development
skills. Agencies additionally need to employ multidisciplinary practices
that drive towards higher orders of automation and the use of logical
controls. To better maximize return on investment, agencies should be
able to compare potential service offerings and use best-in-class
contracts to acquire them.

Agencies should review their information technology portfolios to
determine modernization plans for existing tools. They are encouraged to
perform and leverage a full system and application rationalization, and
those that have not begun this process are encouraged to start
immediately. As part of this effort, agencies should consider whether
virtualization, containerization, and other modern practices can be
leveraged to increase efficiency in agency-owned data centers and vendor
offerings. In accordance with the Federal Information Technology
Acquisition Reform Act (FITARA),[^1] this process should be overseen by
the Chief Information Officer (CIO) at the agency level to help identify
potential opportunities for enterprise-wide improvement.


# <a id="security"></a>II. Security

In the 2017 Report to the President on Federal IT Modernization,[^2] the
Administration outlines the future of Federal information technology as
one in which agencies move further toward a risk-based approach to
securing their systems that places appropriate emphasis on data-level
protections and fully leverages modern virtualized technologies. This
renewed focus must be driven by agency leadership, mission owners, IT
practitioners, and governance bodies.

The evolution of the Federal Government’s cybersecurity policy and
capabilities is essential to modernization. To implement a risk-based
approach to cloud adoption, agencies should transition to security and
protections at the data layer instead of the network and physical
infrastructure layers, as well as improve the governance of systems.
Additionally, it is critical that agencies have comprehensive visibility
of their data, both on-premises and in the cloud, and perform continuous
monitoring in order to detect malicious activity. As agencies approach
their modernization efforts, they should apply these capabilities to
their high-risk, high-value assets first in order to take advantage of
all that cloud has to offer.

The following programs are large elements of the current security
strategy that must evolve with the changing technology landscape,
allowing security to continue innovation to protect the data layer.
However, with this update, agencies will need to think in terms of
intended outcomes and capabilities, not merely programs, in approaching
security holistically.

## Trusted Internet Connections

In 2007, M-08-05 Implementation of Trusted Internet Connections
(TIC)[^3] was released, with the purpose of standardizing the security
of external network connections used by Federal agencies while reducing
the number of those external network connections. The Trusted Internet
Connections policy was established when agencies maintained the majority
of their systems within their agency-owned and operated networks, and
when networking was constrained by physical limitations. Since then, the
technology landscape has changed dramatically with the proliferation of
private-sector cloud offerings, the emergence of software-defined
networks, and an increase in the mobile workforce. Improvements to
security are now driven by standards and secured connections instead of
limited physical connections.

In the current landscape, requiring all agency network traffic to flow
through a limited number of Trusted Internet Connections is no longer
feasible as a one-size-fits-all strategy. This design choice has
hampered agencies’ ability to acquire new technologies including
commercial cloud solutions, which use a distributed network model and
use virtual, rather than physical, controls of data. In addition, these
infrastructure designs have reduced agencies’ ability to take advantage
of new paradigms such as the ability to create zero trust networks not
bound by traditional firewalls.

As a result of these constraints, various agencies have worked with the
Department of Homeland Security to establish agency-specific solutions
to alleviate related performance degradation issues. The result of this
work will be shared in a manner to reinforce
alternative approaches to meeting Trusted Internet Connection
objectives, including updating the Trusted
Internet Connections Reference Architectures to demonstrate use cases
where program objectives can be met without the requirement to route all
traffic through a limited number of physical access points. In use cases
where traffic is not required to be routed through a Trusted Internet
Connection, agencies must implement DHS-designated controls
required to ensure an appropriate baseline
level of security across the Federal enterprise. Given the variety of
platforms and implementations across the Federal enterprise, the Trusted
Internet Connection Reference Architectures will also demonstrate how
different use cases that do not require traffic to be routed through a
Trusted Internet Connection can address the requirements for
government-wide intrusion detection and prevention efforts, such as the
EINSTEIN Program.[^4]


## Continuous Data Protection and Awareness

Migrating to a cloud-based environment changes the dynamic of network
visibility and data protection that an agency might already be
supporting. As data transits various networks and comes to rest in
various locations, such as an end user’s device, Identity and
Credential, and Access Management (ICAM) and encryption become
increasingly important.

An agency is the custodian of its data on behalf of the public. As such,
each agency should determine its own governance model for cloud-hosted
data that aligns with their identity and credential management systems.
Additionally, where a cloud solution is deployed by a vendor, a Service
Level Agreement (SLA) should be in place that provides the agency with
continuous awareness of the confidentiality, security, and availability
of its data.

Furthermore, agencies should be made aware if their data resides on
third-party information systems, provided with access to log data, and
notified promptly if a cyber-incident or other adverse event occurs.
Agencies should consider having an agreement with all providers, be they
Federal or commercial, regarding access to and use of log data for their
information security operations.

Agencies and their partners should regularly engage in reciprocal
information sharing in an effort to combat malicious cyber behavior.
Cybersecurity requires public-private collaboration, and as more Federal
entities adopt commercial cloud solutions, customers and providers
should work together to protect information. Furthermore, DHS’s
Continuous Diagnostics and Mitigation (CDM) program[^5] must continue to
evolve in order to equip agencies with the monitoring tools and
capabilities they need to understand their cyber risk in the cloud.

## FedRAMP

The Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP) is a
government-wide program that has proven the value of a standardized
approach to security assessment, authorization, and continuous
monitoring for large cloud services providers. Cloud service providers
have shown their ability to meet Federal security requirements through
standardized baselines and common criteria. With the growing marketplace
of providers, agencies have been able to rapidly adapt from old,
unsecured legacy technology to mission-enabling, secure, and
cost-effective cloud-based systems. 

Although the FedRAMP project management office has been able to
drastically reduce the time to authorize a cloud service provider by
working through the Joint Authorization Board, there is still work that
can be done to improve the pace of authorizing new providers. In
addition, the large number of agency-specific processes has made it
complicated for agencies to issue an Authorization to Operate (ATO) for
solutions, even when using existing authorized cloud service providers.
In fact, despite the importance to cybersecurity risk
management,[^6] agencies continue to cite major obstacles with their own
policies and practices, which has transformed the ATO process from a
risk-enabling practice to a labor-intensive exercise. Strategies for
accelerating common ATO agreements and overall process improvements are
in development and will be addressed in future guidance.

Leveraging cybersecurity expertise in the FedRAMP program will allow the
Federal Government to continue to increase the efficiency and
effectiveness of agency security practices in adopting cloud systems,
while eliminating the burden on security professionals, providers, and
agency leadership.

# <a id="procurement"></a>III. Procurement

In an effort to help Government move to the cloud, individual agencies,
interagency working groups, and industry partners have provided a
plethora of recommendations to Federal information technology and
acquisition professionals. However, there has been a lack of consistent
government-wide guidance or cross-agency information sharing on best
practices. This has forced agencies to search across multiple sources to
gain a basic understanding of the various types of cloud services sold
in the commercial marketplace, the different offerings available on
existing government-wide contracts, and the best way to evaluate which
approach is best for a given requirement.

As a result of ubiquitous private sector use of cloud computing,
agencies often purchase services through contracts that, while not
specifically designed to purchase services or capabilities, involve
placement of agency information into the cloud for processing or
storage. This creates potential security concerns that require greater
attention in order to ensure that the workforce has the tools necessary
to reduce security risks and protect Government data.

To address these challenges, agencies will need to use a variety of
approaches that leverage the Federal Government’s strengths in bulk
purchasing power and shared knowledge of good acquisition principles. As
part of the **Cloud Smart** multidisciplinary approach, they will also
need to put security considerations at the forefront of any procurement
efforts.

## Category Management

The absence of any government-wide guidance or common standards and the
limited collaboration across agencies has delayed the adoption of cloud
within the Federal Government. This has also resulted in costly
redundancies and inefficiencies for agencies that have procured cloud
services.

The Federal Government will employ category management to improve buying
practices that support **Cloud Smart** strategies, increase adoption of
proven cloud vehicles in the Federal marketplace, and develop new
vehicles to address emerging demands. Category management involves a
structured approach focused on defining products and services that
behave in a similar matter. It allows the Federal Government to buy
smarter and more like a single enterprise, increases efficiency and
effectiveness, and improves relationships with industry.

## Service Level Agreements

A Service Level Agreement defines the level of performance expected from
a service provider, how that performance will be measured, and what
enforcement mechanisms will be used to ensure the specified levels are
achieved. In the Government acquisition context, the need for these
agreements are incorporated via contract clauses and quality assurance
provisions. In legacy technology environments, these agreements are a
critical element of negotiation with suppliers. The term “Service Level
Agreement” itself has become overloaded with multiple meanings depending
on context and has resulted in increased uncertainty in how to achieve
better outcomes for agencies. In order to ensure smarter cloud
purchasing and usage across executive agencies, a two-track approach is
needed.

First, a review and determination on contractual terms and conditions
should be performed. Per the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR),
contracts for procuring commercial items must include only those
contract clauses required to implement provisions of law applicable to
the acquisition of commercial items or determined to be consistent with
customary commercial practice.[^7] Therefore, the Federal Government
needs to ensure that any additions to customary commercial agreements
focus on the goal of avoiding inconsistencies between commercial
regulation and Federal law. This must be accomplished without unduly
burdening industry or creating actual risks from changes to commercial
practices.

Second, the President's *Executive Order on Strengthening the
Cybersecurity of Federal Networks and Critical Infrastructure*[^8]
stressed that heads of executive departments and agencies are
accountable for managing the risk to their enterprises and that
responsibility cannot be outsourced via Service Level Agreements. Many
recommendations point to the potential benefits of clarifying roles and
responsibilities, establishing clear performance metrics, and
implementing remediation plans for non-compliance. An important element
of acquiring cloud services is clarity in what services a cloud provider
performs and at what level. Such governance, architecture, and
operational clarity would help agencies ensure services are performed
effectively, efficiently, and securely.

This two-track approach will decrease costs to Government and burdens on
industry, enable faster procurement lead times, and reduce
administrative costs for both Government and compliant commercial
suppliers. Such an approach will increase standardization across
Government usage of cloud and mitigate the risks associated with siloed
efforts at executive agencies.

## Security Requirements for Contracts

It is incumbent on agencies to consider security implications while
making cloud procurement and deployment decisions. To begin this shift
in approach, the Office of the Federal Chief Information Officer will
release an update to the previous High Value Asset (HVA) memorandum[^9]
that builds on the previous initiative. Specifically, agencies need to
ensure that contracts for High Value Assets, including those managed and
operated in the cloud, include requirements to ensure visibility into
the security of the asset. Additionally, agencies should include
requirements for developers, manufacturers, and vendors to employ
systems security and privacy engineering concepts. This will drive
targeted integration of security and privacy design principles, secure
coding techniques, and trusted computing methods.

# <a id="workforce"></a>IV. Workforce

The Federal information technology workforce is responsible for
executing agency missions, delivering services to the public, and
securing our nation’s critical systems and information. In the same way
that agencies cannot outsource risk, neither can they outsource critical
decision making to vendors. Agencies should instead infuse their own
workforce with key skills to move the **Cloud Smart** strategy forward.
Improving the Federal Government’s technology infrastructure to enhance
the quality, security, and impact of services agencies deliver to
taxpayers, requires maturity of the Federal workforce.

As agencies adopt and migrate to cloud platforms, the impact these
migrations will have on the Federal workforce needs to be examined,
along with identification of potential skill gaps. Agencies must
forecast which new skills and programmatic approaches will be needed to
address the gaps and skills evolution. For example, migration to cloud
technologies may reduce needs for information technology hardware
management but will likely increase the need for programming skills in
the use of Infrastructure as Code. Agencies may also need to equip their
acquisition staff with additional skills and knowledge to keep up with
the ever-expanding list of technology options available to procure.
Agencies’ cloud strategies and policies should generally include a
workforce development and planning component that includes the following
topics and activities.

## Identifying Skill Gaps for Current and Future Work Roles

In order to successfully transition to cloud platforms, agencies will
need to ensure that their workforce is knowledgeable enough to
understand all of the considerations in planning a migration, as well as
to support the cloud environment once deployed. Agency Chief Information
Officers and Chief Human Capital Officers (CHCOs) should work
collaboratively to conduct a skills gap analysis that is compliant with
any statutes or regulations. At a minimum, the skills gap analysis
should include an examination of the agency’s current IT workforce
posture that is mapped to a projection of future skill and position
requirements. Where appropriate, agencies are strongly encouraged to
leverage industry projections to help predict future workforce skill and
position requirements, especially for information technology roles. As
with many new technology initiatives, agencies should expect to have an
aggressive period in which staff are trained in the use of cloud
technologies, as well as plan for ongoing training and experimentation
in this very rapidly evolving field, where skills may become outdated in
less than a year.

The Federal Cybersecurity Workforce Assessment Act of 2015[^10] requires
Federal agencies to implement the National Initiative for Cybersecurity
Education (NICE) Cybersecurity Workforce Framework through a new coding
structure and by identifying all Federal civilian positions performing
information technology, cybersecurity, or other cybersecurity-related
functions.[^11] While it is important for all agencies to participate in
this process to help standardize the way in which the Federal Government
assesses cybersecurity workforce gaps, this effort is not entirely
inclusive of all information technology positions or skill sets.
Therefore, agencies are encouraged to conduct a separate enterprise-wide
IT skills gap analysis to ensure it is inclusive of the all current and
future information technology relevant skills and positions.

## Reskilling and Retaining Current Federal Employees

Current employees may lack the skills or knowledge required to
facilitate a cloud migration or to maintain the environment once
migrated. It is important for the agency to conduct a skills gap
analysis to identify both technical and non-technical skill and position
gaps. Once the agency has identified those gaps, leadership will need to
determine which skill and position gaps are the most significant and/or
critically needed to support the agency’s mission.

In order to immediately address the most critical gaps, the agency will
need to develop and implement reskilling strategies for current
employees. Agency reskilling strategies should focus on training and
professional development opportunities that allow current employees to
acquire critically needed skill sets and certifications.

Reskilling initiatives should also include Senior Executives Service
employees in order to provide them with a fundamental understanding of
cloud computing. Additionally, acquisition of cloud computing services
remains relatively new territory for acquisition professionals.
Therefore, acquisition professionals such as Chief Acquisition Officers,
Contracting Officers, and Project Managers will need to leverage current
procurement resources and guidance. These resources should include those
provided by the Office of Federal Procurement Policy and training
opportunities such as those provided through the Federal Acquisition
Institute[^12] and the TechFAR HUB.[^13]

Furthermore, consistent with guidance for specialized IT acquisition
roles, agencies may benefit from reviewing their current IT acquisition
workforce and program needs to determine if developing a new specialized
team, or expanding the use of IT acquisition cadres, would lower cloud
migration risk and improve overall outcomes.[^14] One possible model for
training and development is the Office of Management and Budget’s
Digital Information Technology Acquisition Professional (DITAP)
program.[^15]

Lastly, agencies should consult with their Chief Human Capital Officers
and Chief Learning Officers to determine the best approaches for
training and redeployment options such as certification programs,
creating merit promotion job opportunities, or rotational programs.

## Recruiting and Hiring to Address Skill Gaps

The Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that cloud computing is a major
factor in technology occupation growth, which is projected to expand 13%
from 2016 to 2026.[^16] In addition to agencies reskilling current
employees in order to address the most critical skill and position gaps,
recruitment and hiring strategies should be considered. Key strategies
include leveraging industry recruitment best practices, expanding the
use of pay flexibilities, and removing bureaucratic barriers to hiring
staff expeditiously. Agencies must build a pipeline to continuously feed
cybersecurity talent into the Federal Government.

The market for technology professionals with cloud computing skill sets
is extremely competitive. When possible, agencies should leverage
techniques used by the private sector to attract and hire the best
candidates to the Federal Government. In coordination with their Chief
Human Capital Officer, agencies should execute proactive recruitment
strategies such as:

-   Attending industry conferences with career fairs;

-   Holding national hiring events to strengthen awareness and outreach;

-   Developing “most wanted” talent advertisements to showcase critical
    needs;

-   Ensuring that job postings on places like USAJOBS properly reflect
    needed skills;

-   Engaging candidates through social media platforms;

-   Profiling and sharing current employee experiences;

-   Leveraging merit promotion hiring procedures to retain, promote, or
    redeploy current Federal employees when appropriate; and

-   Showcasing diversity and inclusion initiatives.

While the Government invests in efforts to recruit existing talent to
the Federal workforce, it should also build a talent pipeline to expand
the pool of qualified applicants. Through the Workforce Council and
Chief Information Officer Council (CIOC) initiatives, the Government
will continue to develop partnerships with community colleges,
apprenticeship programs, and four-year institutions, in addition to
leveraging partnerships that already exist. Expanded consideration of
reskilling and upskilling solutions should be included in agency
transition strategies.

## Employee Communication, Engagement, and Transition Strategies

Prior to migrating to the cloud, agencies should execute communication
plans that help employees understand the changes that will need to take
place to implement the **Cloud Smart** strategy. For example, migration
to the cloud may require decommissioning legacy systems that have been
in use for many years. Employees may feel reluctant, especially if
positions will be redefined, to learn to operate new systems in a cloud
environment. Agencies can ease workforce concerns by clearly
articulating how the current workforce will fit in once cloud adoption
is complete. Socializing a technology roadmap to include systems that
will be migrating to the cloud, either completely or partially, and an
outline of the change management process to include reskilling
opportunities is strongly recommended. Communicating and engaging with
employees is key to successful adoption of new cloud solutions. Agencies
should feel comfortable in leveraging vendors involved in cloud
migration activities to provide or support training for current
employees.

## Removing Bureaucratic Barriers to Hiring Talent Expeditiously

The demand for technology professionals with cloud computing skills sets
is at an all-time high. This means attracting, recruiting, and retaining
the right individuals will take an executable human capital strategy
with a streamlined hiring process. Agencies with aggressive hiring
timelines and competitive offers leveraging pay and recruitment
incentives will attract talent. It is imperative for agency leadership
to identify and promptly address bureaucratic barriers that hinder
agencies from hiring talent in an expeditious manner.

Agencies have broad authorities under Title 5 of the United States Code
to hire top IT and cybersecurity talent, and to provide candidates with
superior qualifications or who address critical skill gaps with pay
flexibilities and incentives. Agencies are strongly encouraged to use
available hiring authorities, recruitment, and student loan repayment
incentives to hire professionals with highly sought-after cloud
computing skills.

It is incumbent upon Federal agencies to ensure that their current and
future workforce is prepared to support Federal cloud environments.
Agency cloud strategies should enable leaders to develop and empower the
information technology and cybersecurity workforce with the skills
required to achieve cloud migration goals and support the latest
technology that will improve critical citizen services.


[^1]: [40 U.S.C. §
    11319](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/granule/USCODE-2015-title40/USCODE-2015-title40-subtitleIII-chap113-subchapII-sec11319).

[^2]: <https://itmodernization.cio.gov/>

[^3]: [M-08-05 Implementation of Trusted Internet Connections
    (TIC)](https://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/files/omb/memoranda/2008/m08-05.pdf)

[^4]: <https://www.dhs.gov/einstein>

[^5]: <https://www.dhs.gov/cdm>

[^6]: As established through [Circular
    A-130](https://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/files/omb/circulars/A130/a130revised.pdf),
    the Federal Information Processing Standards, and NIST Special
    Publications.

[^7]: [48 C.F.R. §
    12.301](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CFR-2014-title48-vol1/pdf/CFR-2014-title48-vol1-sec12-301.pdf)

[^8]: [Executive Order 13800, Strengthening the Cybersecurity of Federal
    Networks and Critical
    Infrastructure](https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/presidential-executive-order-strengthening-cybersecurity-federal-networks-critical-infrastructure/)

[^9]: [M-17-09 Management of Federal High Value
    Assets](https://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/files/omb/memoranda/2017/m-17-09.pdf)

[^10]: <https://www.congress.gov/bill/114th-congress/house-bill/2029/text>

[^11]: [NIST Special Publication 800-181 – NICE Cybersecurity Workforce
    Framework](https://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/files/omb/procurement/memo/guidance-for-specialized-acquisition-cadres.pdf)

[^12]: <https://www.fai.gov/>

[^13]: <https://techfarhub.cio.gov/>

[^14]: <https://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/files/omb/procurement/memo/guidance-for-specialized-acquisition-cadres.pdf>

[^15]: <https://techfarhub.cio.gov/initiatives/ditap/>

[^16]: Bureau of Labor Statistics – *Occupational Outlook Handbook:
    Computer and Information Technology Occupations*, as of January 2018
    -
    <https://www.bls.gov/ooh/computer-and-information-technology/home.htm>
